# Wheel of Time ... Thing

## IRIs

The ontology's IRI is `http://wot.barneyb.com/wot/` to leave space for an
application at the domain root, with dynamic content occupying the `/wot/` path.

IDs are generated by stripping punctuation, capitalizing every word, and then
stripping spaces. Thus, the IRI for "Rand al'Thor" is `:RandAlThor`. The ID for
"Asha'man" is `:Ashaman` (no capital `m`).

Colloquial names should be used, for easier guessed-by-human. Thus, `:TamAlThor`
with `:alternateIRI` of `:TamlinAlThor`.

Titles should not be used, for example "Queen", "Sedai", or the royal "al'".
Thus, the IRI for "al'Lan Mandragoran" is `:LanMandragoran`,
not `:AlLanMandragoran`. This may appear contradictory to Rand's IRI above, but
the "al'" on Rand's surname, like many Emond's Field surnames, is not a title.
It was derived from one, of course: Aemon al Caar al Thorin, last King of
Manetheren, and Emond's Field's namesake.

Collisions are avoided by suffixing the in-conflict IRI with some sub-namespace,
separated by an underscore. Thus, the IRI for the "Wolfbrother" chapter in _The
Eye of the World_ is `:Wolfbrother_TEofW`. Both _The Great Hunt_ and _A Memory
of Light_ also have "Wolfbrother" chapters. If an in-conflict IRI is detected
retroactively (by creating a new resource):

*   the old resource's IRI should be deprecated,
*   a new one with a suffix created, and
*   the two resources marked `sameAs`.

## Labels

Labels should follow the IRI, with full/alternate names in `foaf:name`. Thus
`:TamAlThor` has label "Tam al'Thor" w/ name "Tamlin al'Thor".
